ChatGPT works in this way.
ChatGPT is in the middle,
is that logo we have there.
ChatGPT or any GPT model,
actually, receives a prompt,
and it gives a result,
that's kind of the idea.
And in this case,
ChatGPT as an app is using a GPT model
that looks like a black box there.
And the color is not random
because it's actually a black box,
we don't know what's inside.
We don't know how it works.
We will see this in action
in a couple of minutes.
But we treat that piece of software,
let's say it's a software,
as something that we don't
actually understand what's inside.
The only thing we know is
that we put a prompt and
we receive something in return, okay?
What's a prompt?
A string, just text.
What's the result?
A string, another text.
That's why it's known as
a large language model.
So that's the basic thing.
And maybe if you're a developer,
you're expecting this to be different
later during the day in this course.
You're expecting me to show you an API
where you can actually get into
that black box to make things
differently or things like that.
And that doesn't exist,
actually, that doesn't exist.
So I got that as a surprise when I was
trying to understand how this work.
So GPT,
we have different versions of GPT, and
there will be more versions in the future.
That's the only thing that you pick,
the version.
And there are some settings as well,
but we don't have an API for
do something different with the model.
It's always a prompt and
a result, that's all.
So we need to deal with that.
That's why there is something
known as prompt engineering.
Because the only input we
have there is the prompt.
So we need to get experts
integrating that prompt.
Well, when we are setting a prompt or
we are sending a prompt to ChatGPT or
to any API that is GPT-enabled,
and we're getting the result,
we are measuring those strings
with something known as tokens.
Tokens will be the most important unit for
us from now on, why?
Because that's what we are paying for.
A token is a sequence of characters,
or, let's say,
subwords that the model uses as
the basic unit of processing and
understanding natural language text.
So we are not going to be
charged in our credit card,
we will get into that
in a couple of minutes.
We are not going to get charged by
the character or by the word or
by the paragraph,
we're going to get charged by the token.
So that's how we work.
So during the month, OpenAI will
count how many tokens we've used.
And you will use tokens when we prompt and
when we receive the output, okay?
Yeah, you're actually in charge
of the prompt, not of the output.
But what you can do is you select
the maximum amount of token that you
are willing to pay for every prompt.
So you will say, hey, I'm going to pay for
only ten tokens, not more than that.
So we can narrow the output
using that maximum tokens
property that we will see
where it is in a minute.
And just to give you an idea of
what a token is, in English,
it's roughly 4.5, so between 3 and
6 letters per token.
So one token, let's say it's four letters,
but that's different per language.
And also that's different when
you are applying source code.
So because ChatGPT or
GPT can also read and write source code.
So in that case, it's not per character.
For example, when you open curly braces,
that might be just one token.
So it's not counting really characters.
And when you're writing in different
languages, Chinese, Korean,
it's not like four characters
will give you a token.
So it's a different way
of understanding that.
At this point, you might be thinking,
how do I know how this works?
Well, we do have in
OpenAI a tokenizer tool.
It's platform.openai.com/tokenizer,
where you can write some text.
And you can see how many tokens
this particular text will get.
In this case,
it's going to be three tokens, but
I can just copy any text and
see how many tokens it will take.
You will see that it's
not always the same.
For example, here I have one comma,
the comma is taking one token we have for
the comma, okay?
But at least with this you can estimate
based on the prompts that you will use and
the results that you are expecting.
You will try to understand roughly or to
estimate roughly how this is gonna work.
By the way, here we see GPT-3.
GPT, we know what that is,
it's the LLM model.
What about Codex?
Codex is a different model that OpenAI,
the company,
is going to deprecate pretty soon.
And Codex was actually optimized for
source code.
But because now GPT is pretty
good at source code as well,
they are deprecating Codex.
It was a different model, so
different models will calculate
tokens in a different way.
So that's about tokens.
Well, what about the price of tokens?
Well, of course, pricing might change.
So I'm just giving you the rough
price as we are shooting this video.
There is a pricing website at OpenAI
where you can get the exact pricing.
But just to give you an idea,
ChatGPT, or GPT 3.5,
that's actually the version
that ChatGPT is using,
cost around US$2 per million tokens, okay?
Yeah, you won't pay per million token,
you will pay by the token.
So if it's $0.01 cent, you will be charged
$0.01, but that's actually the price.
So GPT4, that is the latest
version of the model available,
that you may have heard that
it's actually much better for
some special tasks,
such as coding and complex tasks,
is actually 30 to 60 times
more expensive than 3.5.
So that power comes with
more processing power used,
so that's why it's more expensive.
The advantage is that it
has a higher token window.
Is it okay?
What's that?
What's a token window?
So now we know what a token is, and
we know that we will prompt a model and
the model will respond with a string,
okay, we know that.
And we know that that's expressing tokens.
What we don't know as of right
now is that models have a limit
of how many tokens you can input,
you can prompt, or receive.
And GPT 4, it has a higher token window.
If I wanna send GPT a book because
I want GPT to summarize the book,
I need to calculate how many
tokens that book will contain.
And GPT 3 can maybe read one
page per request, only one page.
But ChatGPT 4 can read 60 pages,
80 pages of that same book.
Of course, I will pay more, not just
because the token is more expensive,
but because, of course,
I'm paying per token.
But having that higher
token window means that
I can give more context
to that LLM black box
to get better answers, that's the idea.
Also, GPT 4 will have in the near future,
it's not today available to every user,
image and prompting.
That is the idea of taking a picture and
ask questions about the picture.
So I can take a picture of the room here,
and I can get an answer of, okay,
how many chairs do I have here in this
room, or ask questions about that picture.
That API was demoed by the CEO,
but it's not yet available to everyone.
When that happens,
it will have its own pricing system.
Also, there are other models available
on OpenAI that we won't use today.
But have in mind, it's not everything
ChatGPT, there are other models,
the most common one is called DaVinci.
Those models are not optimized for
chat, for
a conversation between a human and
the LLM.
It was more about completion,
so you were actually saying I'm
a web developer, and
because of that my primary language is,
and the model will give you JavaScript,
probably, right?
But it's not about answering questions,
it's more completion,
it's like the grandfather of ChatGPT.
Those models are still there and
you can still use them.
And sometimes they are cheaper than
ChatGPT if you wanna use them.
But they are for
more precise specific situations.
And we know that LLMs can be used for
anything, so
most people are just using ChatGPT.
Also we have image models, and later
today we will use one, DALL-E, actually.
So you can actually send a prompt,
that's not an LLM, it's a different model.
You will send a prompt like,
I want a web developer that is actually
thinking about an artificial intelligence.
And you will get an image that
was created based on your prompt.
And for everything we have an API.
And we will use that API from our web app.
And finally, there is audio models.
We have that audio model
from OpenAI open source.
But if you don't wanna download and
run that directly in your computer,
you can use the service.
In that case, the audio service
they have is for transcription.
So we can get the audio of
what I'm speaking right now.
We can get really quickly, like three
hours of audio, you can get the text
transcript that works pretty well in
around five seconds, that's how quickly.
So three hours in five seconds.
So those are the models that
we have today on OpenAI.
What about how to create
an account on OpenAI?
First, it's not the same as
having an account on ChatGPT.
So you need to go and
create a different account.
You go to platform.openai.com.
It's free to sign in,
there is only one restriction,
is that you need to
validate your phone number.
So you need a valid phone
number with an SMS, and
that phone number shouldn't
be a VoIP phone number.
So it's not gonna work if you try a VoIP
like an online number such as Skype or
things like that, it's not gonna work,
it should be a real SIM card.
And you will get, if this is
the first time you will try this, and
you can do that right now, you can
pause the video and do that right now.
If you sign in, you can get free credits,
today it's $5 that will last 3 months.
And in that case,
you can start playing with the API and
do all the exercises that we will
be using today, not paying a dime.
So $5 will be good enough for everything
that we will be doing today and more.
If you are thinking I will
create different accounts so
I can get more than $5.
Those $5 is per phone number, okay?
That's why they're not
accepting VoIP numbers.
There will be rate limits as well.
This is in case you are getting
really professional or
your service is going viral,
there are some rate limits.
So you cannot get into one particular
API more than 500 times per minute.
For example, GPT 3.5, so that's ChatGPT,
the cheaper version,
it's 3500 requests per minute.
It's actually pretty good,
for a start, at least.
It depends on what you're doing, have in
mind that you have that limit per account.
And GPT 4, it's only 200 requests
per minute, so it's more expensive,
it's much better, but
also it's much limited, today, at least.
So this is important for those of you
that are working for a company or
creating products for companies.
When you're using the OpenAI API,
all the interaction that you're
having will not be used for
training or
improving models at OpenAI company.
That's not the case for ChatGPT.
When you're using ChatGPT, even if
you're paying for the plus service,
the data that you are submitting
may be used later for training.
When you're using the API, that's not
the case, it's part of the contract, okay?
So legally,
everything that you say there is not
going to be stored or
used to train other models.
So this is important, and if you're
a ChatGPT user, you probably know this.
OpenAI GPT, both 3.5 and 4,
the training data is actually up to 2021.
So they might not have
knowledge of current events,
so you shouldn't rely on OpenAI for
events in the past two years,
so have in mind that.
That was the basic of OpenAI and
understanding how that works.
So at this point, the next step for
you is to go and get an account,
because without an account,
you won't be able to use this.